---
title: "Using JSON in GO"
author: Brandon Tsai
---


JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data interchange format that is easy for humans to read and write and easy for machines to parse and generate. It has become one of the most popular data interchange formats used in web services and APIs. In this article, we will explore how to use JSON in the Go programming language.

Encoding JSON in GO
-----------
In Go, the encoding/json package provides support for encoding Go data structures into JSON and decoding JSON data into Go data structures.

### Encoding Structs to JSON

To encode a Go struct into JSON, we first define the struct with the json tag for each field that we want to encode. The json tag specifies the name of the field in the JSON object. Here's an example:

```go
type Person struct {
    Name    string `json:"name"`
    Age     int    `json:"age"`
    Address string `json:"address,omitempty"`
}
```

In the above example, the Person struct has three fields, Name, Age, and Address. The json tag is used to specify the names of the fields in the JSON object. The `omitempty` option is used to omit the Address field from the JSON object if it is empty.

To encode a Person struct into JSON, we can use the json.Marshal() function, like this:

```go
p := Person{Name: "John", Age: 30}
b, err := json.Marshal(p)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("error:", err)
}
fmt.Println(string(b))
```

In the above example, we create a Person struct with the Name and Age fields set, and then we use the json.Marshal() function to encode the struct into JSON. The resulting JSON data is stored in the b variable as a byte slice. We can convert the byte slice to a string and print it to the console using the string() function.

The output of the above code will be:

```json
{"name":"John","age":30}
```

### Encoding Maps to JSON

We can also encode a Go map into JSON using the json.Marshal() function. Here's an example:

```go
m := map[string]interface{}{"name": "John", "age": 30}
b, err := json.Marshal(m)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("error:", err)
}
fmt.Println(string(b))
```

In the above example, we create a Go map with two key-value pairs, "name" and "age", and then we use the json.Marshal() function to encode the map into JSON. The resulting JSON data is stored in the b variable as a byte slice, which we can convert to a string and print to the console.

The output of the above code will be:

```json
{"age":30,"name":"John"}
```

Decoding JSON in GO
-----------------

In addition to encoding Go data structures into JSON, the encoding/json package also provides support for decoding JSON data into Go data structures.

### Decoding JSON into Structs

To decode JSON data into a Go struct, we first define the struct with the json tag for each field that we want to decode. The json tag specifies the name of the field in the JSON object. Here's an example:

```go
type Person struct {
    Name    string `json:"name"`
    Age     int    `json:"age"`
    Address string `json:"address,omitempty"`
}
```

In the above example, the Person struct has three fields, Name, Age, and Address. The json tag is used to specify the names of the fields in the JSON object. The omitempty option is used to omit the Address field from the JSON object if it is empty.

To decode JSON data into a Person struct, we can use the json.Unmarshal() function, like this:

```go
var p Person
err := json.Unmarshal([]byte(`{"name":"John","age":30}`), &p)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("error:", err)
}
fmt.Println(p)
```

In the above example, we create an empty Person struct and then use the json.Unmarshal() function to decode the JSON data into the struct. The first argument to json.Unmarshal() is the JSON data as a byte slice, and the second argument is a pointer to the struct that we want to decode the JSON data into. If the decoding is successful, the Person struct will contain the decoded data. We can then print the contents of the Person struct to the console.

The output of the above code will be:

```go
{Name:"John", Age:30, Address:""}
```

#### Handling Unknown Fields

If the JSON data contains fields that are not present in the Go struct, the json.Unmarshal() function will ignore them by default. However, we can use the json.RawMessage type to capture the unknown fields.

```go
type Person struct {
    Name    string          `json:"name"`
    Age     int             `json:"age"`
    Unknown json.RawMessage `json:"-"`
}
```

In the above example, we added an Unknown field of type json.RawMessage to the Person struct. The Unknown field has the json:"-" tag, which tells the encoding/json package to ignore this field when encoding or decoding JSON data.

```go
var p Person
jsonData := []byte(`{"name":"John","age":30,"city":"New York"}`)
err := json.Unmarshal(jsonData, &p)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("error:", err)
}
fmt.Println(p)
fmt.Println("Unknown fields:", string(p.Unknown))
```

In the above example, we decode the JSON data into the Person struct, which now includes the Unknown field. We can then print the contents of the Person struct to the console, including the unknown fields.

The output of the above code will be:

```go
{Name:"John", Age:30, Unknown:[123 34 99 105 116 121 34 58 34 78 101 119 32 89 111 114 107 34 125]}
Unknown fields: {"city":"New York"}
```


#### Decode a JSON file Into Structs

To decode a JSON file into a struct in Go, we first need to read the contents of the file into a byte slice, and then use the json.Unmarshal() function to decode the JSON data into the struct.

Here's an example:

```go
type Person struct {
    Name string `json:"name"`
    Age int `json:"age"`
    City string `json:"city"`
}

func main() {
    file, err := os.Open("person.json")
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println("error:", err)
        return
    }
    defer file.Close()

    var person Person
    decoder := json.NewDecoder(file)
    err = decoder.Decode(&person)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println("error:", err)
        return
    }

    fmt.Println(person)
}
```

In the above example, we define a Person struct with three fields: Name, Age, and City. We then open the person.json file using the os.Open() function and create a new json.Decoder object using the json.NewDecoder() function. We then use the Decode() method of the json.Decoder object to decode the JSON data into the person struct.

The json:"name" syntax in the struct definition is called a tag. It is used to map the struct fields to the corresponding JSON key names during decoding. In this example, the Name field in the struct will be mapped to the name key in the JSON data.

Assuming that the person.json file contains the following JSON data:

```json
{
    "name": "John",
    "age": 30,
    "city": "New York"
}
```
The output of the above code will be:

```sql
{John 30 New York}
```

In the above example, we successfully decoded the JSON data in the person.json file into a Person struct in Go.


### Decoding JSON into Maps

We can also decode JSON data into a Go map using the json.Unmarshal() function. Here's an example:

```go
jsonData := []byte(`{"name":"John","age":30,"city":"New York"}`)
var m map[string]interface{}
err := json.Unmarshal(jsonData, &m)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("error:", err)
}
fmt.Println(m)
```

In the above example, we create an empty map m of type map[string]interface{} and use the json.Unmarshal() function to decode the JSON data into the map. The first argument to json.Unmarshal() is the JSON data as a byte slice, and the second argument is a pointer to the map that we want to decode the JSON data into. If the decoding is successful, the map m will contain the decoded data.

The output of the above code will be:

```go
map[name:John age:30 city:New York]
In the above example, the keys of the map are strings, and the values can be of any type. We can access the values of the map using the key names.
```

### Decoding JSON into Slices

We can also decode JSON data into a Go slice using the json.Unmarshal() function. Here's an example:

```go
jsonData := []byte(`[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`)
var s []int
err := json.Unmarshal(jsonData, &s)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("error:", err)
}
fmt.Println(s)
```

In the above example, we create an empty slice s of type []int and use the json.Unmarshal() function to decode the JSON data into the slice. If the decoding is successful, the slice s will contain the decoded data.

The output of the above code will be:

```go
[1 2 3 4 5]
```

In the above example, the JSON data is an array of integers, and we decode it into a slice of integers.


Conclusion
-----------

In this article, we learned how to encode and decode JSON data using the encoding/json package in Go. 
With this knowledge, you can now easily read and decode JSON data in your Go applications.


Reference
--------

https://gobyexample.com/json
https://vsupalov.com/go-json-omitempty/

