---
title: "Handle CSV file in GO"
author: Brandon Tsai + ChatGPT
---

CSV (Comma Separated Values) files are commonly used to store and exchange data in a tabular format. In Go, we can easily work with CSV files using the built-in `encoding/csv` package. This package provides functions to read and write CSV data in Go.

Reading CSV files
-------------

To read a CSV file in Go, we can use the csv.NewReader() function. This function takes an io.Reader as its input and returns a *csv.Reader that we can use to read the CSV data.

Here's an example of how to read a CSV file in Go:

```go
import (
    "encoding/csv"
    "fmt"
    "os"
)

func main() {
    file, err := os.Open("data.csv")
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println("Error:", err)
        return
    }
    defer file.Close()

    reader := csv.NewReader(file)
    records, err := reader.ReadAll()
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println("Error:", err)
        return
    }

    for _, record := range records {
        for _, value := range record {
            fmt.Printf("%s ", value)
        }
        fmt.Println()
    }
}

```


In the above example, we first open the data.csv file using the os.Open() function. We then create a *csv.Reader using the csv.NewReader() function and pass the file as its input. We then use the ReadAll() function to read all the records in the CSV file. Finally, we loop through each record and each value in the record and print it to the console.

Writing CSV files
------------


To write a CSV file in Go, we can use the csv.NewWriter() function. This function takes an io.Writer as its input and returns a *csv.Writer that we can use to write the CSV data.

Here's an example of how to write a CSV file in Go:

```go
import (
    "encoding/csv"
    "os"
)

func main() {
    data := [][]string{
        {"Name", "Age", "City"},
        {"John", "30", "New York"},
        {"Jane", "25", "Chicago"},
    }

    file, err := os.Create("data.csv")
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Println("Error:", err)
        return
    }
    defer file.Close()

    writer := csv.NewWriter(file)
    defer writer.Flush()

    for _, record := range data {
        err := writer.Write(record)
        if err != nil {
            fmt.Println("Error:", err)
            return
        }
    }
}
```

In the above example, we define a two-dimensional slice data containing the CSV data that we want to write. We then create a new file using the os.Create() function and create a *csv.Writer using the csv.NewWriter() function. We then loop through each record in the data slice and write it to the CSV file using the writer.Write() function.

Conclusion
----------


In this article, we learned how to read and write CSV files in Go using the built-in encoding/csv package. We saw how to read a CSV file using the csv.NewReader() function and how to write a CSV file using the csv.NewWriter() function. With this knowledge, you can now easily work with CSV files in your Go applications.