Logging is an important aspect of software development that helps developers to track the application's behavior and identify issues. In Go, the log package provides a simple way to log messages to the console or a file.

In this artible, We will use the built-in `log` package that provides most basic logging features.



Logging to Console
-----------------

To log messages to the console in Go, we can use the log package's Println function. The Println function takes a variable number of arguments of type interface{} and prints them to the console separated by spaces.

Here's an example:


```go
package main

import (
    "log"
)

func main() {
    log.Println("Starting application...")

    // application logic here

    log.Println("Application stopped.")
}
```

In the above code, we use the log package's Println function to log messages to the console. We log a message when the application starts and when it stops.

When the above code is executed, we'll see the following output in the console:

```yaml
2021/09/01 12:00:00 Starting application...
2021/09/01 12:01:00 Application stopped.
```


The log package automatically adds a timestamp and the severity level to each log message.

Logging to File
---------------

To log messages to a file in Go, we can use the log package's File function. The File function takes a file name and flags as arguments and returns a new *log.Logger instance that writes log messages to the specified file.

Here's an example:

```go
package main

import (
    "log"
    "os"
)

func main() {
    file, err := os.OpenFile("app.log", os.O_CREATE|os.O_WRONLY|os.O_APPEND, 0644)
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    defer file.Close()

    logger := log.New(file, "", log.LstdFlags)

    logger.Println("Starting application...")

    // application logic here

    logger.Println("Application stopped.")
}
```

In the above code, we first create a new file using the os.OpenFile function and set the file mode to 0644. We then create a new *log.Logger instance using the log.New function and pass in the file we just created as the first argument.

The second argument to the log.New function is a prefix that will be added to each log message. In this example, we leave it empty.

The third argument to the log.New function is a set of flags that control the behavior of the logger. In this example, we use the log.LstdFlags flag, which includes the date and time in the log messages.

We then use the new *log.Logger instance to log messages to the file. We log a message when the application starts and when it stops.

When the above code is executed, we'll see a new file called app.log in the current directory with the following contents:

```yaml
2021/09/01 12:00:00 Starting application...
2021/09/01 12:01:00 Application stopped.
```

Conclusion
---------


In Go, the built-in `log` package provides a simple way to log messages to the console or a file.
However, it does not have log levels (such as debug, warning, or error).
If you would like to generating more rich, structured logs, you can use third-party logging framework such as [logrus](https://github.com/Sirupsen/logrus)
