---
title: "#11 Pointer"
author: Brandon Tsai
---

In Go, a pointer is a variable that holds the memory address of another variable similar to C and C++. It allows you to indirectly access and modify the value of the variable it points to. Pointers are useful when you want to avoid making copies of large data or when you need to modify the original data from a different context.

- To declare a pointer, use the `*` symbol followed by the type of the variable it points to. For example: `var ptr *int`
- Go use `&` symbol to access the memory address of a variable.
- The value stored in the variable that the pointer points to can be accessed by the `*` operator.

Following is the example of the usage of pointer.

```go
var a int = 10

// declare a pointer that store the memory address of int variables.
// var p1 *int = &a
p1 := &a
// You can use 'new()' funtion to decalir a pointer as well
p2 := new(int)
p2 = &a

fmt.Println(a)	// 10
fmt.Println(p1)  // Memory address of a
fmt.Println(p2)	 // Memory address of a
fmt.Println(*p1) // 10
fmt.Println(*p2) // 10

// Dereferencing. update the value that the pointer point to.
*p1 = 100
fmt.Println(a)
fmt.Println(p1)
fmt.Println(p2)
fmt.Println(*p1)
fmt.Println(*p2)
```

Compare Two Pointer
------------------

You can compare two pointers of same type using operators `==`, `<` or `>`.

```go
if p1 == p2 {
    fmt.Println("Both pointers p1 and p2 point to the same variable.")
}
```

Receiver Functions With Pointers
----------------------------

In a normal receiver functions, the parameters are **pass by value**.
With the feature of pointer, Go can pass the parameters by address

```go

type player struct {
	name    string
	coins   int
}

func (p1 *player) giveCoinsTo(p2 *player, payCoins int) {
	(*p1).coins = (*p1).coins - payCoins
	(*p2).coins = (*p2).coins + payCoins
}

func main() {

	a := &player{name: "Brandon", coins: 1000}
	b := &player{name: "James", coins: 5000}

	// declre a pointer that store the memory address of int variables.
	p1 := &a
	p2 := &b
	p1.giveCoinsTo(p2, 300)

	fmt.Println(a.coins)
	fmt.Println(b.coins)

}
```

In Golang, you do not need to declare a pointer before calling the receiver functions.
This means that we can remove `p1 := &a` in above example.
However, for the parameters, we still need to decalre a pointer.

```go
	// declre a pointer that store the memory address of int variables.
	p2 := &b
	a.giveCoinsTo(p2, 300)
```
Copy Struct With Pointers.
-------------------

When copying a variable of a struct that contains pointers, you need to perform a deep copy to ensure that the new struct variable and its pointers do not reference the same memory locations as the original struct. By doing so, you create an independent copy of the struct and its underlying data.

Here's an example of how to properly copy a struct with pointers:

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

type Node struct {
	value int
	next  *Node
}

func main() {
	// Original struct variable
	original := Node{
		value: 42,
		next:  &Node{
			value: 18,
			next:  nil,
		},
	}

	// Copying the struct variable
	copied := deepCopy(original)

	// Modifying the original struct's pointer
	original.next.value = 99

	// Print original and copied struct
	fmt.Println("Original:")
	printNode(original)
	fmt.Println("Copied:")
	printNode(copied)
}

func deepCopy(n Node) Node {
	if n.next != nil {
		n.next = &deepCopy(*n.next)
	}
	return n
}

func printNode(n Node) {
	for n.next != nil {
		fmt.Printf("%d -> ", n.value)
		n = *n.next
	}
	fmt.Printf("%d\n", n.value)
}


```

Memory Management in Go
--------------------------------

Go has an automatic memory management system known as garbage collection. It automatically manages the allocation and deallocation of memory for variables, reducing the burden on developers to handle memory explicitly.

The garbage collector identifies and reclaims memory that is no longer needed by the program. It tracks variables that are no longer reachable and frees up the associated memory, making it available for future use.

Go's garbage collector uses a tri-color concurrent mark and sweep algorithm. This algorithm minimizes the impact of garbage collection on the overall program performance by spreading the collection process over time and running it concurrently with other program activities.

As a Go developer, you do not need to manually allocate or deallocate memory, as the garbage collector takes care of it for you. However, it's essential to write efficient code and avoid unnecessary allocations or long-lived references to large data structures, as these can impact the performance of garbage collection.

By relying on the automatic memory management provided by Go, developers can focus on writing robust and efficient code without worrying about memory leaks or manual memory management errors.

Understanding pointers and memory management in Go allows you to work effectively with complex data structures, optimize your code for memory usage, and leverage the benefits of Go's automatic garbage collection system.